A collection of some miscellaneous previous statistics projects and assignments.
=====

## Statistical Methods
>Focused on applications of simple and multiple linear regression in R 

[maxMachalek3050FinalReport](https://github.com/MaxMachalek/PriorStatsWork/blob/main/maxMachalek3050FinalReport.pdf) is an analysis of a fictional war scenario with a fictional country, led by the nefarious Dr. Doom, using **multiple linear regression**. The task was to present the effects of a number of different variables with respect to how they might affect enemy casualties versus civilian casualties in a potential war scenario. The data used was generated by the professor to make creation of an *exceedingly* good model challenging, but possible.

-----

## Data Mining
>Covered both the mathematical basis and computational implementation in R of a wide range of data mining topics. 
>>Topics included: multiple linear regression in high dimensions, cross validation methods, logistic regression, K nearest neighbors, discriminant analysis, decision trees, bagging/random forests/boosting, support vector machines, principal component analysis, and cluster analysis. 

[Principal_Component_Analysis](https://github.com/MaxMachalek/PriorStatsWork/blob/main/DataMining_PCA/Principal_Component_Analysis.pdf) is an assignment from my Data Mining class in which **principal component analysis** and **cluster analysis** were used to classify flowers. 


[Logistic_Regression_LDA_QDA_KNN](https://github.com/MaxMachalek/PriorStatsWork/blob/main/DataMining_LogisticReg_LDA_QDA_KNN/Logistic_Regression_LDA_QDA_KNN.pdf) is another assignment from my Data Mining class. **logistic regression**, **linear discriminant analysis**, **quadratic discriminant analysis**, and **K-nearest neighbors** are applied to data regarding survival rates on the RMS Titanic.


...more to be added...

-----

## Multivariate Analysis 
>Covered both the mathematical basis and computational implementation in R of a wide range of multivariate topics. 
>>Topics included: plotting multivariate data, multivariate regression, principal component analysis, canonical correlation analysis, cluster analysis, multidimensional scaling, multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA), discriminant analysis, exploratory factor analysis, and confirmatory factor analysis.


...more to be added...

-----

## Machine Learning
>Focused heavily on the mathematical derivation of machine learning methods with assignments including implementation of some methods in Python. Unfortunately I currently cannot locate my python files for these assignments but I do have a couple pdfs at hand of results and derivations. 
>>Topics included: regression (including ridge regression and Lasso), optimization by gradient descent and Lagrange multiplier, density estimation, principal component analysis, support vector machines, nearest neighbor classifiers, naive Bayes classification, artificial neural networks, ensemble learning, and online learning.

[Gradient_Descent_and_Lagrange](https://github.com/MaxMachalek/PriorStatsWork/blob/main/Gradient_Descent_and_Lagrange.pdf) is a simple assignment in which we utilize both **gradient descent** and **Lagrange multiplier** methods of **optimization**. It required creating an update formula with a stopping critereon then implemented those in python, plotting convergence graphs with different hyperparameters in addition to applying the **Lagrange multiplier** for a separate minimization problem. 


...more to be added...

-----

